Fixing issue1240 - Dynamic Analysis (#1326)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x05b-Basic-Security_Testing.md

#### Dynamic Analysis

> Dynamic Analysis assesses the application after compiling it and running it, in a similar fashion to black box application testing. The way the code works should be inferred and looked at from a higher level. This allows the tester to properly identify business logic flaws and it helps identify vulnerabilities in live environments. The tester in dynamic analysis can either be an automated tool, such as [MobSF](https://github.com/MobSF/Mobile-Security-Framework-MobSF/), or a real penetration tester. On Android, dynamic analysis can be done by side-loading applications, or by leveraging frameworks such as [Magisk](https://github.com/topjohnwu/Magisk) or [Xposed](https://forum.xda-developers.com/xposed).

Reviewer: - A tester would normally not compile the app, the target app should be on a release version. The approach to a dynamic analysis is therefore more on the black box side.
- I would mention how dynamic and static analysis relate to and support each other, it's like a feedback loop. Sometimes it might even be a good idea to start with the dynamic analysis to get entry points for the static (reverse eng.).
- I would not say that the tester is an automated tool, rather the tester might use an automated tool..
- You don't need always to side-load the app to perform dyn. ana. the app might be installed already or you need to extra repackage it (for non-rooted) devices.
- I would not say that you use Magisk for dynamic analysis, you use it to root the device, see "###### Rooting with Magisk" also in this chapter.

> _Note:_ In order to use those frameworks, a rooted phone is required.

Reviewer: see previous comment.

##### Using Non-Rooted Devices

Rooted devices are certainly easier to bypass security than non-rooted devices. There are still ways to analyse android devices without rooting them. This makes it more intuitive for testers to test their applications without the need of having an extra rooted phone.

> One clear differencing version in Android must be discussed before going forward. As of Android 8.0 (API level 26), using a non-rooted device doesn't allow the tester to bypass `SSL pinning` by injecting the proxy certificate (_e.g._ Burp Suite's certificate) as applications need to be explicitly told to trust User CAs, and only trust System CAs by default.

Reviewer: isn't there another way to bypass that?

Reviewer 2: This is already described here: https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/dcda81fa5974146cb6efc3f61be4b12d62d8bcc6/Document/0x05b-Basic-Security_Testing.md#bypassing-the-network-security-configuration

Bypassing SSL Pinning should also be moved to the test case and not to the basic testing: https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/658b35132c033aede9a260a7a7ea7e78bbf32868/Document/0x05g-Testing-Network-Communication.md#testing-custom-certificate-stores-and-certificate-pinning

Author: Good to hear that. I'll remove them and focus more on the need, pros and cons of non-rooted devices

In order to bypass the above mentioned issue, 2 ways present themselves.

- Find and remove the code revolving around SSL pinning, or allow the application to trust the User CAs in the manifest, and then re-package the application.
- Use Frida to dynamically overwrite the function that handles SSL pinning and instruct it to use the proxy's certificate.

In order to dynamically analyse the application, the tester could rely on [Objection](https://github.com/sensepost/objection) which is powered by Frida, and that too, can be used to bypass certain security checks without rooting the phone.

> ##### Method Tracing

Reviewer: Maybe I can take over this part to speed up the finishing of this PR as you told you might need some time for the research. What do you think?

Author: If this is in a hurry, please do so!

> ##### Basic Network Monitoring/Sniffing

Reviewer: maybe we just remove this line. See my other comment: https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/pull/1326#issuecomment-507061089

#### Dynamic Analysis

Dynamic Analysis tests the mobile app by executing and running the app binary and analysing the workflows's for vulnerabilities. For example vulnerabilities regarding data storage might be sometimes hard to catch during static analysis, but in dynamic analysis you can easily spot what information is stored persistently and if the information is protected properly. Besides this, dynamic analysis allows the tester to properly identify:

- Business logic flaws
- Vulnerabilities in the tested environments
- Weak input validation and bad input/output encoding as they are processed through one or multiple services

Analysis can be assisted by automated tools, such as [MobSF](https://github.com/MobSF/Mobile-Security-Framework-MobSF/), while assessing an application. An application can be assessed by side-loading it, re-packaging it, or by simply attacking the installed version.

##### Using Non-Rooted Devices

Non-rooted devices provide the tester with two benefits:

> - Replicate an environment that the application is intended to run on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Replicate an environment that the application is intended to run on.
```

> - As a tester you don't need to bypass root detection and can use objection to package the app with the Frida Gadget.

Reviewer: Split into 2 benefits

```suggestion
- If root detection is in place you don't need to bypass it because of running on a legitimate environment.
- Thanks to tools like objection you can patch the app to able able to test like if you were on a rooted device (but of course being jailed to that one app).
```

Author: Hmm reading it again now, don't you think that line 1260 is redundant? If that's the environment that it is intended to run on, then it won't need root bypass.

Reviewer: Yes, maybe you can leave that line out and leave the other two ;)

> In order to dynamically analyze the application, you can rely on [Objection](https://github.com/sensepost/objection) which is leveraging Frida. One way to use objection is to [patch the APK](https://github.com/sensepost/objection/wiki/Patching-Android-Applications#patching---patching-an-apk) with the [frida-gadget](https://www.frida.re/docs/gadget/). Objection communicates then using a Python API with the mobile phone through the installed Gadget application.

Reviewer: Please remember to make links always conform to the style guide: `[TEXT](URL "NAME")`

Objection -> objection: to be consistent

```suggestion
In order to dynamically analyze the application, you can also rely on [objection](https://github.com/sensepost/objection "objection") which is leveraging Frida. However, in order to be able to use objection on non-rooted devices you have to perform one additional step: [patch the APK](https://github.com/sensepost/objection/wiki/Patching-Android-Applications#patching---patching-an-apk "patching - patching an APK") to include the [Frida gadget](https://www.frida.re/docs/gadget/ "Frida Gadget") library. Objection communicates then using a Python API with the mobile phone through the installed Frida gadget.
```

#### Dynamic Analysis

> Dynamic Analysis tests the release version of an application, in a similar fashion to black box application testing. The way the code works should be inferred and looked at from a higher level, unlike static analysis, which takes the application's code and tries to analyze how the application will behave. This allows the tester to properly identify:

Reviewer 2: Dynamic Analysis can test various versions of an app (UAT, pre-prod, prod etc.) and is also not directly linked to black box testing. Therefore I would change the following:

Dynamic Analysis tests the release version of an application, in a similar fashion to black box application testing. The way the code works should be inferred and looked at from a higher level, unlike static analysis, which takes the application's code and tries to analyze how the application will behave.

to:

Dynamic Analysis tests the mobile app by executing and running the app binary and analysing the workflows's for vulnerabilities. For example vulnerabilities regarding data storage might be sometimes hard to catch during static analysis, but in dynamic analysis you can easily spot what information is stored persistently and if the information is protected properly. Besides this, dynamic analysis allows the tester to properly identify:

> - Business logic flaws which extend over multiple services

Reviewer 2: Let's just say "Business Logic Flaws"

> - Vulnerabilities in live environments

Reviewer 2: Just say "Vulnerabilities in the tested environment". Testing could be executed in various environments

- Weak input validation and bad input/output encoding as they are processed through one or multiple services

>  whereas static analysis would identify:

Reviewer 2: As this is the dynamic part, please remove this line and three bullet points

- Code bad practices
- Regex usage issues
- Hidden code layers

Analysis can be assisted by automated tools, such as [MobSF](https://github.com/MobSF/Mobile-Security-Framework-MobSF/), while assessing an application. An application can be assessed by side-loading it, re-packaging it, or by simply attacking the installed version.

##### Using Non-Rooted Devices

Non-rooted devices provide the tester with two benefits:

> - Replicate the same environment of the installed application

Reviewer 2: - Replicate an environment that the application is intended to run on

> - Use any device without the need of having it rooted

Reviewer 2: It is a benefit for a tester of not having it rooted, therefore please rewrite:
- As a tester you don't need to bypass root detection and can use objection to package the app with the Frida Gadget.

> In order to dynamically analyze the application, the tester could rely on [Objection](https://github.com/sensepost/objection) which is powered by Frida. This tool works by [patching](https://github.com/sensepost/objection/wiki/Patching-Android-Applications#patching---patching-an-apk) the target application with the [frida-gadget](https://www.frida.re/docs/gadget/) library. Objection communicates using a Python API with the mobile phone through the installed Gadget application.

Reviewer 2: Please rephrase:

In order to dynamically analyze the application, you can rely on [objection](https://github.com/sensepost/objection) which is leveraging Frida. One way to use objection is to [patch the APK](https://github.com/sensepost/objection/wiki/Patching-Android-Applications#patching---patching-an-apk) with the [frida-gadget](https://www.frida.re/docs/gadget/). Objection communicates then using a Python API with the mobile phone through the installed Gadget application.

In order to accomplish this, the following commands can set you up and running:

```bash
# Download the Uncrackable APK
$ wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/master/Crackmes/Android/Level_01/UnCrackable-Level1.apk
# Patch the APK with the Frida Gadget
$ objection patchapk --source UnCrackable-Level1.apk
# Install the patched APK on the android phone
$ adb install UnCrackable-Level1.objection.apk
# After running the mobile phone, objection will detect the running frida-server through the APK
$ objection explore
```

> _Note:_ The following [section](#Setting-up-a-Network-Testing-Environment) assists tremendously with the dynamic analysis process. As this is a basic guide, the two sections are separate as each can be used on its own. For advanced purposes, it is essential to combine the knowledge gained from both sections.

Reviewer 2: Please dont use links like this: 
[section](#Setting-up-a-Network-Testing-Environment)
Write "Setting-up-a-Network-Testing-Environment"

As otherwise this cannot be followed in the printed version of the MSTG

Reviewer 2: Please make notes with a ">" instead of _Note:_
